MALE NARRATOR:
Previously on Debris...
BRYAN:
They found your father.
MADDOX:
Our main priority is
to recover George.
FINOLA (on speaker):
We can't let the Americans
take possession of him.
-FINOLA: Dad.
-MADDOX: This isn't
a retrieval, Bryan.
-Step aside.
-No.
Please tell Maddox
my father wasn't even here.
Come on!
He and his government took
Orbital away from me.
They are liars, all of them.
I don't know how you could've
done that to us.
I have a chance
to set things right.
(straining)
Kathleen!
What's wrong?
Who are you?
I don't know who you are.
I'm Mac.
What are you talking about?
I don't know who you are.
Stop saying that, Shelby.
Stop it!
That's not true!
I am your brother!
What?
Where's Kathleen?
Where's my sister?
Where is she?
We don't have a sister!
What?
Oh, no. No.
Oh, my God.
She's gone.
** (theme)
-BRYAN: Are we lost?
-FINOLA: Hmm?
-Are we lost?
-No, no, no.
Um, just keep going
There's going to be a bend,
and you're gonna wanna
take a left.
It's like he is in a coma.
FINOLA:
Yeah. He's been through a lot.
I think he needs it.
What are we gonna do
about Maddox?
He doesn't suspect anything.
I can feel it.
We're going to go to Garcia's,
get George the equipment
that he needs
and let it play out.
We're betraying both our
countries.
I don't even care.
I watched as they
systematically took his life's
work away from him,
where they took Orbital away
from him.
I mean, you know what
that reduced him to?
It was so hard to watch.
There's a part of me that's
always held them responsible.
That holds Maddox responsible
for his suicide.
What about Ferris?
You said that you told her
you were calling the shots?
Will she accept that?
Yeah, I mean,
all Ferris cares about
is not letting the Americans
have more information
than we have.
Will she turn over
the Laghari files?
Yeah.
-(device chimes)
-Yeah, she will.
A new event just came in.
Near Oceanside,
Washington State.
Atmospheric inconsistencies.
(tires screeching)
(Finola sighs)
GEORGE:
What happened?
It's okay. It's okay, Dad.
We almost hit a deer.
Just came out of nowhere.
(George sighs)
Good driving.
Although, you do tend to drive
a little fast for my taste.
Haste is a signifier
of disorganization.
I will take note of that.
Thank you, George.
You're welcome.
Stay here.
(door closes)
Did Bryan tell you about
this man, Garcia?
Yeah. He said he was
some scientist at Orbital,
and he was injured
in a Debris event.
Bryan said you know him.
Yes, I do.
(knocking)
Bryan.
Garcia.
Hey, man.
Hey.
You look healthy.
You're still taking
the injections?
Yeah, when they send them to me.
Finola, this is Garcia.
Hi.
Nice to meet you.
Hello, Gary.
George.
Draw your list. If there's
anything I don't have,
I know where to find it
without raising any alarms.
(device chimes)
(Finola sighs)
FINOLA: We have to go
to Washington State
on a case now.
It's not too far.
I wish we didn't have to,
but we have to keep things
just moving as normal.
Maddox can not suspect that
anything's wrong.
Are you gonna be okay?
I'll be perfectly fine.
Let's get to work.
FINOLA:
The latest SAT scans
have come in,
I don't see any change.
BRYAN:
We should be getting close.
FINOLA:
It's just up ahead
on the left.
-(device chimes)
-FINOLA: This is it.
-I love the sea.
-(device chimes)
You getting anything?
-(device scanning)
-Yeah.
It's faint,
but it's definitely here.
Let's go check if they saw
anything come down.
-(doorbell chimes)
-(latch clicks)
Hey, there. Agent Beneventi,
this is Agent Jones.
Your parents home?
No. No, they're not.
Do you know
when they'll be back?
SHELBY:
Come on in.
-It's okay. They're traveling.
-Who are?
My parents,
they're traveling.
Won't be back until
the end of the month.
Take a seat.
-What's your name?
-Shelby.
We're, um...
We're here in Oceanside
to investigate pieces of
a crashed military aircraft.
You're part of
a recovery effort?
That's right. Have you seen
anything or heard anything?
Is that your little brother?
Apparently. His name's Steven.
Have you seen anything fall
from the sky
or heard anything like that,
past few days?
Yeah. Yeah, I have.
Found what you're looking for,
actually.
It's alloy wreckage.
I found it with my sister
Kathleen when we were diving.
I know that's part
of a crashed alien ship.
How do you know that?
We found it, examined it,
went in it.
It transported us
two days into the past.
At first, it was amazing.
We did it again.
We kept doing it,
till one time I came back
and my sister was gone.
It's like she was never born.
And now it's worse.
Now every time I go out there,
I don't know what version
of reality
is waiting for me
when I get back here.
Sometimes I have other siblings,
other times I'm alone,
but Kathleen never comes back.
How far out to sea is it?
(sighs)
I'm going to keep using it,
till it resets properly
and I get my sister back.
I don't know
what you think you know,
but that's just
not gonna happen.
Yeah. Yeah, you've said that
before.
Not the last time you were here,
but the time before that.
You see, every time
you come here,
you get my story
and call your father George.
He's in Oregon. He's been
helping me figure this out.
Each time,
I learn a little bit more.
My, uh...
my father's been helping you?
Yeah. At first,
he thought it was time travel,
but that didn't make sense
because we'd only jump back
a couple days,
and my sister was born
20 years ago,
yet somehow she was erased.
George already determined
it's not just time travel.
He said the Debris
is allowing me
to pluck out cards
from the deck of reality.
He already warned us,
if I don't get back
to my reality,
that the fabric of the universe
is going to degrade at
an increasing rate.
I need you to call him again,
if you want to save
the world.
Have any questions?
GEORGE:
That's remarkable.
It's like you're drifting
through a kaleidoscope
of timelines.
The last thing you told
me to try was to do the jump
at the exact time as I did
the last one with my sister.
GEORGE (on speaker):
Yes. That sounds like
something I would say.
What happened?
Well, I tried it
at exactly 4:03 P.M.,
but it didn't work,
I still keep coming up
in a reality without her.
Perhaps, it's failing
because the reset needs
to happen at the precise time
that you initially
triggered the Debris,
not just 4:03 P.M.,
but 4:03 and 22.983 seconds.
Yeah, but of course,
if that's the case,
you could be doing this,
for a lifetime and--
and never succeed.
I can't accept that.
You said so yourself,
I have to fix this.
There has to be something
I can do.
We have to keep trying.
May I ask,
did you see any colors
-when you triggered the Debris?
-I don't know.
GEORGE: It's important
that you try to remember.
It may help us deduce
what's happening.
Finola? There some concepts
that I would like to run by you.
Can we speak privately?
Yeah.
Yeah, I'm here.
Finola, as much
as I want this young man
to get back to his sister,
you cannot let him jump again.
You must convince him
to accept his fate
and realize
that she won't be back.
Why?
These repeated jumps
are causing a cumulative strain
on the fabric of space-time.
It could cause
irreversible damage.
I'm surprised nothing
has happened already.
I would rather he not use
the Debris until I can see it.
FINOLA:
Damage the universe?
But Shelby said the exact
opposite.
He told us that
damage would be done
if he doesn't get back
to his reality.
I have no reason to think
why that would be
or why I would say that.
Do not let him jump
from this reality.
Okay.
He told us that my father said
that the universe would
continue to decay
if he doesn't get back.
It's not true, he's lying.
It's the jumps
that are causing it.
BRYAN:
Why would we do that?
So we would help him
get back to his sister.
Hey, Steven.
Where's Shelby?
(device chimes)
FINOLA:
A new event just came in
near Oceanside,
Washington State,
atmospheric inconsistencies.
We're gonna have
to get out there.
Oh, look. Look at the deer.
What do you think, George?
Yes.
Yes, this'll do nicely.
(device chimes)
Hey, Dad? We have to respond
to the Debris event
in Washington State now.
I wish we didn't, but we have
to keep things moving as usual.
Are you going to be okay?
Yes. I'll-- I'll be fine.
I'd like to get to work
right away.
GEORGE: Garcia, where might
I find the circuit boards?
BRYAN:
He's in good hands.
FINOLA: The signature's just up
here, just to the right.
I love the sea.
You getting anything?
-(device sounding)
-Yeah.
Faint. But there's definitely
something out there.
-FINOLA: Hello? Federal agents.
-SHELBY: In here.
Agent Beneventi.
This is Agent Jones.
We've got a few questions
for you.
-Are your parents home?
-No.
They're in Europe up
until the end of the month.
MAC:
I forgot my crayons.
Hey, there.
Say hey to Bryan, Mac.
Hey, Bryan.
How do you know my name?
GEORGE: I wish I could
have done more for you.
Continued treatments.
Tried harder.
I did everything that I could,
but Maddox--
I understand.
-You received my letter?
-Yes.
I couldn't respond.
My family wouldn't allow it.
Well, I don't blame them.
I wondered if you regret
creating Orbital.
No.
Regret wouldn't be the word
I would use.
When Bryan called and told me
what happened to you,
I couldn't help
but see the irony.
In a way, you were eaten
by your own monster.
When the Americans became
involved in this,
the money was necessary,
but the machine of the
coalition,
it got too strong.
The powers that be started
to do things their own way.
And their way was to send people
in before we knew what we were
dealing with.
I... I accepted
what happened to me.
I can say that much,
at least.
And I think you should accept
your fate.
There's always some danger
in new knowledge,
new technology,
but there's also great potential
benefit for humanity,
for understanding,
for quality of life.
There are no rewards
without some element of risk.
I believe that's intrinsic
to our jobs.
And I believe
that you knew the risk.
(device buzzing)
Hello?
GEORGE:
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Go back.
SHELBY: You asked if I could
see colors. The answer's yes.
GEORGE; What colors
did you see exactly?
White, yellow,
maybe red
as the flash happened.
GEORGE:
You didn't see any orange?
SHELBY:
I don't think so, no.
You have to try and remember
the exact shades,
the exact length and spectrum.
Okay. I think I have
an idea. Hold on.
FINOLA:
Damage to the universe?
You told him
that damage would be done
if he doesn't get back
to his original reality.
GEORGE: I have no idea
why that would have be.
And I can't imagine why
I would say such a thing.
(gasps)
GEORGE: You mustn't allow
him jump to another reality.
He lied to us.
Where's your brother, Mac?
Where is he? Bryan!
He said I wasn't his real--
You sure you don't want
to have a bite of this?
I have the plastic spoon,
if you don't want to have
my germs.
It's not the spoon, Niels.
It's the sour fish...
and yogurt.
NIELS:
Omega-3 fatty acids.
100% of the nutrients
I need in a single serving.
I don't know why you don't just
take vitamins like everyone
else.
It's right here.
NIELS:
I love the sea.
Niels, shoot me that Laghari?
-(device sounds)
-You get anything?
Yeah. Faint.
But it's here.
What do you think?
Northeast wind?
Signatures could be coming
from there.
What are you,
a grizzly tracker now, Niels?
How did you know the wind's
coming from the northeast?
Because they are.
I'm telling you.
You just put your tongue
into the air,
and...
Let's go.
(bell chimes)
-Hey there. I'm Agent Beneventi.
-(scoffs)
And this is my partner,
Agent Vinke.
Are your parents home?
This is interesting.
(chuckles)
Come on in.
I took a GoPro to try and film
what he wanted me to find
out about the colors,
but it didn't work.
Now instead of Finola,
you show up with--
I'm sorry,
what's your name again?
-Oh, Niels.
-Niels...
it's imperative that I speak
to George Jones again.
George Jones is dead.
Wait, what are you
talking about?
Yeah, he took his own life
six months ago
in London.
If you'll excuse me.
I need to use the restroom.
(footsteps depart)
Yeah. There's definitely
something wrong with this guy.
Indeed, this guy's nuts.
Call it in.
NIELS:
What's he doing now, this guy?
Hey! Hey!
** ("Gimme Shelter"
by The Rolling Stones plays)
I love the sea.
Rahim, shoot me the Laghari.
(device sounds)
-You get anything?
-(bell chimes)
-Roberta?
Jafar?
Hey!
Claire, toss me
that Laghari a sec.
It's no good, Maria.
Can I use yours?
(bell chimes)
-Thanks, Alvin.
-(device sounding)
Don't break it this time.
Can I see your Laghari?
Sure.
-(device sounding)
-You get anything?
Yeah. Faint.
But there's definitely
something here.
(bell chimes)
-Hey there. Agent Beneventi.
-Welcome back.
** ("Gimme Shelter" continues)
What's your name?
Shelby.
* It's just a shot away *
* War, children *
Why so many mirrors, Shelby?
I'm looking for my sister.
I can see her
in the mirror sometimes.
Your sister?
I think he's trying to find
her way back to me
from another reality.
FINOLA:
Oh.
(Finola gasps)
What'd you see?
Did you see her?
FINOLA:
I did.
SHELBY:
Kathleen! Kathleen!
(phone rings)
Yo.
Hey, Craig, it's Vince
at the the Federal Grill.
Yeah. Hey, Vince. How you doing?
It's been a long time.
Tell me about it.
I'm just calling
to confirm a reservation
that Julia made for this
afternoon at 1:30.
Yeah. Yeah.
That sounds right.
I'm sitting this one out.
VINCE:
Next time.
-Be good to see you.
-Yeah, you too. Thanks.
(sighs)
Jen.
Can you move everything
after my next meeting?
I need to go out
for a few hours.
-JEN: Okay, sure.
-Thanks.
(line ringing)
Hi, you've reached Julia's
voicemail.
Please leave a message.
Hi. Who are you?
-Who is he?
-Craig, just be calm, please.
-Hi. I'm Justin.
-Shut up.
-Who is he?
-He's a lawyer. I hired him.
He's a lawyer? You hired a--
-I cannot believe this.
-I know this is--
If you say one more word,
I will literally kill you.
You have to tell me
what's going on.
You hired a divorce attorney?
I tried to talk to you.
You don't want to listen.
Well, I'm listening now.
Tell me.
I can't pretend for you,
Craig.
-Okay.
-You try so hard.
You've always tried
so painfully hard.
That's what a husband
supposed to do, right?
You don't want me
to fight for us?
-No.
-You-- You--
You don't want me
to fight for us.
What do you want, Julia?
Nothing.
-The accident.
-(exhales)
Craig.
It was not your fault.
It wasn't your fault.
-No. Stop saying that, okay?
-Sweetheart--
That is exactly the problem,
Craig.
Stop pretending that
it's in the past.
(phone rings)
Julia, listen to me, honey.
A terrible thing happened
to our family.
I'm not in denial
about that.
I know what we've been through,
but I also know what
people can survive,
and I know-- I know what a
strong family can get through.
I've seen it.
And I know that we can get
through this together.
I know we can
because what we have...
that love that we have
for that boy...
This is good.
We're good.
You hear me? You're good.
You're good.
I don't see your world.
I just live
with Dario every day,
and then you come home
and you expect me
to pretend that I'm not unhappy?
That I'm not sad?
That I don't think about
what happened every single day,
every moment of every day?
You want me to just let it go?
We promised each other that we
would get through this together.
Didn't we promise
each other that?
You can't admit it.
You've never been able
to admit it.
'Cause you weren't there,
and you don't know the truth.
But I know.
-I broke us.
-No.
-I broke all of us
with what I did.
-It wasn't--
I was the one who was driving
the car, Craig.
It was me.
And I can't take it back.
I wish I could take it back,
but I can't take it back.
And I can't-- I can't live
with your forgiveness
anymore, okay?
I can't.
I can't. I'm sorry.
I don't wanna accept it.
-Julia, come here.
-I don't accept it.
-Okay.
-Come back.
-Julia.
-(phone ringing)
God.
(phone clatters)
What exactly did I say
about colors last time?
SHELBY: You said I need
to capture the exact sequence
I see in the flash,
so I tried to use the GoPro
but it didn't work.
GEORGE:
You have to focus your mind
and try to memorize
the precise time.
I'm way ahead of you.
I've had to go back
so many times.
I've had to do this over
and over and over again
to get it right,
and the colors,
they go by so fast.
At first is white for a second,
and then it turns to orange,
about twice as long,
and then feeds into yellow
and then back to orange again.
-GEORGE: Orange? Fascinating.
-You said that before.
It's actually what got you
started on this tangent
to begin with.
Dad, but does that mean
anything to you?
There was this Debris piece
that I worked on in Kent, small.
It affected a woman.
Certain desires manifested
themselves in her life somehow.
She also spoke about similar
color patterns.
Are you saying the Debris
is granting desires?
The piece of Debris may have
been a fragment
of the larger Debris
that you're dealing with now.
It may be reading your desires
and shifting you
to a reality that fits.
Shelby, you may be the pilot.
That doesn't make any sense.
All I want-- the only thing--
is to get my sister back.
If that was true,
she'd be here.
No, no. Desire's a funny thing.
Sometimes what we think we want
and what we actually want can
be two different things.
I encourage you
to think on that answer.
It's like the penguin
and the soldier story, Finola.
Exactly like that.
I think that's what
the answer could be here.
Are you still there?
Maybe he's right.
You don't know what
it's like to have a twin.
She's smart, kind,
so many things I'm not.
But sometimes--
Sometimes I wish
she was never born.
I swear in my soul
I don't feel that way now.
I love her so much.
I have to get her back.
I know I can do it.
Damage to the universe?
He told us that you said
you wanted him to go back
in order to stop
the degradation.
A version of me said that.
I don't know why.
The proof is in the mirror.
You see, I believe that they
are reflecting bleed-throughs
from other realities.
This is an indication
of the damage he is doing.
And if these bleed-throughs
are happening,
why are we only seeing them
in the mirrors?
Well, we'll see them
soon enough.
Mirrors are made of glass,
and glass is a very peculiar
substance.
The imperfections
in its molecular structure
cause gaps in the flow
of light waves.
Yeah. And these gaps allow
for the glimpses of other
realities.
-Yes. The mirrors are a promise
of what's to come.
-Yeah.
This would be my guess.
My father never told you
to keep jumping,
not this time
or the time before that.
Every time he tries
to save his sister,
he makes it worse,
and he knows it!
Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey!
It's here.
-(device sounding)
-Picking up steady,
low-grade signatures.
Maybe someone over
at that house knows something.
You don't realize it.
There's a piece of Debris
out there in the ocean.
It's resetting reality.
What do you mean?
Nothing.
Glad to see me?
-Hey.
-I remember now too.
Bryan, what are you doing?
What did you do? Huh?
I told you. You didn't have
to come with me.
I didn't tell you to do that.
WOMAN:
Bryan, hey, look at me.
You got me into this,
you are going to get me out.
-Bryan, look at me!
-You did not do
what George said to do.
-I told you--
-You did not do it.
Yes, I did! I did it, okay?
I love my sister.
I'm telling you the truth.
I want her back more than
anything.
I tried what he said.
Believe me.
WOMAN:
Bryan.
BRYAN: What you're seeing is
a bleed-through from another
reality.
The universe is breaking down.
We have to leave until
the situation team gets here.
You can't do that.
I have this under control.
Bryan, I have known you for five
years.
You do not have this
under control.
You are not my partner. I don't
even know what your name is.
It's me, Grace.
What is wrong with you?
Grace. I know how this looks,
but I am imploring you
to understand
that what is happening right now
you cannot comprehend.
-Bryan.
-This is not my reality.
I need that Debris to get me
back to it.
Do you know who George Jones is?
I do.
Is he alive?
He was killed in an INFLUX raid
a week ago.
You were there.
I'm worried about you.
I'm calling a situation team
right now, Bryan.
(phone ringing)
Agent Jones.
Hello? Agent Jones.
How can I help you?
This is Bryan Beneventi.
I'm an American Orbital Agent
working out of Langley.
Okay.
(computer beeping)
How can I help you, Bryan?
Everything that I'm about
to tell you is going to make
no sense.
Every word of it is going
to feel wrong.
You're gonna think it's insane
and that I am clearly in
psychological danger,
but that is not the case.
Do you have access
to a terminal right now?
-Do you have access
to our site?
-Mm-hmm. Yeah.
Look up a case file J071068.
FINOLA:
Um...
Active atmospheric disturbance
in Oceanside, Washington.
Correct. We've located a piece
that is causing shifts.
-Yeah.
-Cascades of fractures
into space-time.
Now, go back to the beginning
of the conversation
when I told you that you were
going to think this is
completely insane.
I have come in contact
with the Debris,
and I am not the Bryan Beneventi
that belongs here.
I am another version
of Bryan Beneventi
in an alternate reality where
your father is still alive.
I work with him, and he said
something to me before I was
separated from him,
something that I think is key
to stopping what is happening
right now.
He told a story about a soldier
and a penguin.
Do you know what
I'm talking about?
Yeah. It's a story that
was written for my mother.
-(device beeps)
-(door slams)
(computer beeps)
BRYAN: I don't know that this
could be fixed, but I am
desperately trying.
Finola I'm trying to get back
to somebody.
It's very important to me.
Please, how could I know
all this
if what I'm saying isn't true?
He said there was something in
the story that could help me.
It's about a solider who guides
a penguin across the desert
to be with the one he loves.
And over the treacherous
passage,
the penguin asked the soldier
why he risks his life
guiding others to their
heart's desire.
He asked if he wishes he had
something to cross the desert
for,
but the soldier just simply
says, "No."
And once they reach their
destination,
the penguin thanks the soldier,
and shares an observation.
He tells the soldier,
"You fight so bravely
because you have nothing,
and you want nothing
because you are afraid to have
something to lose,
because if you did,
your heart would no longer be
still."
The point of this story--
You can spent a lifetime hiding
from yourself what you truly
want.
(phone vibrates)
MADDOX:
What's the assessment?
We have a problem with Bryan.
I think he's somehow being
affected by the Debris.
What do you mean?
He's saying they have to jump
again.
Does that give you an answer?
It does.
You have to talk to him, Grace.
GRACE: I tried.
Don't let him trigger it again.
You have to stop Bryan.
GRACE:
He won't listen to me.
Whatever the cost.
May I ask?
Who's the person that you're
trying to get back to?
Who is it?
You.
MAN: This is Orbital Situation
Team 62.
We just arrived
at Debris Field 56.
We are tending to Agent Garcia.
(beep)
MAN: There is no trace
of Agent... (inaudible)
(beep)
WOMAN:
I was just speaking to him.
(beep)
MAN:
He's gone. He's-- He's gone.